First: Islam is the official religion of the State and it is a fundamental source of legislation:A. No law that contradicts the established provisions of Islam may be established.B. No law that contradicts the principles of democracy may be established.C. No law that contradicts the rights and basic freedoms stipulated in this constitution may be established.Second: This Constitution guarantees the Islamic identity of the majority of the Iraqi people and guarantees the full religious rights of all individuals to freedom of religious belief and practice such as Christians, Yazedis, and Mandi Sabeans.(Iraq is a country of many nationalities, religions and sects and is a founding and active member of the Arab League and is committed to its covenant. Iraq is a part of the Islamic world.)First: The Arabic language and Kurdish language are the two official languages of Iraq. The right of Iraqis to educate their children in their mother tongue, such as Turkmen, Syriac and Armenian, in government educational institutions in accordance with educational guidelines, or in any other language in private educational institutions, is guaranteed.Second: The scope of the term official language and the means of applying the provisions of this article shall be defined by law which shall include A. Publication of the official gazette, in the two languages;B. Speech, conversation and expression in official settings, such as the Council of Representatives, the Council of Ministers, courts, and official conferences, in either of the two languages;C. Recognition and publication of the official documents and correspondences in the two languages;D. Opening schools that teach the two languages, in accordance with the educational guidelines;E. Use of both languages in any settings enjoined by the principle of equality such as bank notes, passports and stamps.(Third: The federal institutions and agencies in the Kurdistan region shall use the Arabic and Kurdish languages.)Fourth: The Turkmen language and Syriac language are two other official languages in the administrative units in which they represent density of population.Fifth: Each region or governorate may adopt any other local language as an additional official language if the majority of its population so decide in a general referendum.Article 5: The law is sovereign. The people are the source of authorities and its legitimacy, which the people shall exercise in a direct general secret ballot and through their constitutional institutions.Article 6:Transfer of authority shall be made peacefully through democratic means as stipulated in this Constituti Article 7:First: No entity or program, under any name, may adopt racism, terrorism, the calling of others infidels, ethnic cleansing, or incite, facilitate, glorify, promote, or justify thereto, especially the Saddamist Baath in Iraq and its symbols, regardless of the name that it adopts. This may not be part of the political pluralism in Iraq. This will be organized by law.Second: The State shall undertake combating terrorism in all its forms, and shall work to protect its territories from being a base or pathway or field for terrorist activities.Article 8:Iraq shall observe the principles of a good neighborliness, adhere to the principle of non-interference in the internal affairs of other states, endeavor to settle disputes by peaceful means, establish relations on the basis of mutual interests and reciprocity, and respect its international obligations.Article 9:First:A. The Iraqi Armed Forces and Security Services will be composed of the components of the Iraqi people with due consideration given to its balance and its similarity without discrimination or exclusion and shall be subject to the control of the civilian authority. The Iraqi Armed Forces shall defend Iraq and shall not be used as an instrument of oppression against the Iraqi people, shall not interfere in the political affairs and shall have no role in the transfer of authority.B. The formation of military militia outside the framework of the armed forces is prohibited.
C. The Iraqi Armed Forces and its personnel, including military personnel working at the Ministry of Defense or any subordinate departments or organizations, may not stand for election to political office, campaign for candidates, or participate in other activities prohibited by the Ministry of Defense regulations. This ban encompasses the activities of the personnel mentioned above acting in their personal or official capacities. Nothing in this Article shall infringe upon the right of these personnel to cast their vote in the elections.D. The Iraqi National Intelligence Service shall collect information, assess threats to national security, and advise the Iraqi government. This service shall be under civilian control and shall be subject to legislative oversight and shall operate in accordance with the law and pursuant to the recognized principles of human rights.E. The Iraqi Government shall respect and implement Iraq's international obligations regarding the non-proliferation, non-development, non-production, and nonuse of nuclear, chemical, and biological weapons, and shall prohibit associated equipment, materiel, technologies, and delivery systems for use in the development, manufacture, production, and use of such weapons.Second: National service will be stipulated by law.Article 10:The holy shrines and religious places in Iraq are religious and cultural entities. The State is committed to confirming and safeguarding their sanctity, and guaranteeing the free practice of rituals in them.Article 11:Baghdad is the capital of the Republic of Iraq.Article 12:First: The flag, national anthem, and emblem of Iraq shall be fixed by law in a way that represents the components of the Iraqi people.Second: A law shall regulate the decorations, official holidays, religious and national occasions and the Hijri and Gregorian calendar.
Article 13:First: This constitution is the sublime and supreme law in Iraq and shall be binding in all parts of Iraq without exception.Second: No law shall be enacted that contradicts this constitution. Any text in any regional constitutions or any other legal text that contradicts it is deemed void.SECTION TWO: RIGHTS AND LIBERTIESCHAPTER ONE: RIGHTS FIRST: Civil and Political RightsFIRST: Civil and Political Rights Article 14:Iraqis are equal before the law without discrimination based on gender, race, ethnicity, origin, color, religion, creed, belief or opinion, or economic and social status.Article 15:Every individual has the right to enjoy life, security and liberty. Deprivation or restriction of these rights is prohibited except in accordance with the law and based on a decision issued by a competent judicial authority.Article 16:Equal opportunities are guaranteed for all Iraqis. The state guarantees the taking of the necessary measures to achieve such equal opportunities.Article 17:First: Every individual shall have the right to personal privacy, so long it does not contradict the rights of others and public morals.Second: The sanctity of the homes is inviolable and homes may not be entered, searched, or put in danger, except by a judicial decision, and in accordance with the law.
Article 18(First: Iraqi nationality is the right of every Iraqi and shall be the basis of his citizenship.)(Second: An Iraqi is any person born to an Iraqi father or mother. This will regulated by law.)



